Skip to content

[ ![Make Tech
Easier](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/themes/MTE-10/images/mtelogo.svg)
](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/>)

  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/</www.maketecheasier.com/about/search-result/>)

Search __

  * Sign In

My Favorites

Sign up or login to view your favorites!

Log in

[Forgot your password?](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/member/reset-password/>)

Sign up to comment and more Sign up

  * [How-To ](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/all-categories/>)

    * Categories
    * [ __Windows](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/windows-tips/>)
    * [ __Linux](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/linux-tips/>)
    * [ __Mac](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/mac-tips/>)
    * [ __Mobile](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/mobile/>)
    * [ __Android](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/android/>)
    * [ __iOS](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/apple-ios/>)
    * [ __Web](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/internet-tech/>)
    * [ __Browsers](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/browser/>)
    * [ __WordPress](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/wordpress/>)
    * [ __Gadgets](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/gadgets/>)
    * [ __Hardware Guides](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/pc-hardware/>)
    * [ __How Things Work](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/tech-explained/>)
    * [ __All Categories](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/all-categories/>)

    * Series
    * [Understanding Android ROM](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/android-rom/>)
    * [Apache Server Guide](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/apache-server-guide/>)
    * [Hardware Buying Guide](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/hardware-buying-guide/>)
    * [iOS Beginner Guide](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/ios-beginner-guide/>)
    * [Windows Alternative Apps](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/windows-apps-alternative/>)
    * [Linux Desktop Themes](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/linux-desktop-themes/>)
    * [Mastering WordPress](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/mastering-wordpress/>)
    * [Mastering RAID](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/raid/>)
    * [ All Series](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/series/>)

  * [Software](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/software>)
  * [ebooks](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/library/ebooks/>)
  * [Deals](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/deals.maketecheasier.com>)
  * [Giveaway](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/tag/giveaway>)
  * More 

    * About Us
    * [About Us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/about/>)
    * [RSS Feed Terms](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/rss-feed-terms/>)
    * [Contact Us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/contact/>)
    * [Privacy Policy](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/privacy-policy/>)
    * [Advertise with us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/advertise/>)
    * [Terms of Service](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/terms-of-service/>)

    * Follow Us
    * [ __RSS](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/feeds.maketecheasier.com/MakeTechEasier>)
    * [ __Facebook](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/facebook.com/MakeTechEasier>)
    * [ __Twitter](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/twitter.com/intent/user?original_referer=http://www.maketecheasier&region=following&screen_name=maketecheasier&tw_p=followbutton&variant=2.0>)
    * [ __Google+](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/plus.google.com/+Maketecheasier/posts>)
    * [ __Instagram](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/instagram.com/maketecheasier>)
    * [ __Pinterest](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/pinterest.com/MakeTechEasier>)
    * [ __Youtube](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/youtube.com/c/maketecheasier>)

__

__Hi there,  
Log in | Sign up

  * Section
  * [Windows](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/windows-tips/>)
  * [Linux](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/linux-tips/>)
  * [Mac](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/mac-tips/>)
  * [Mobile](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/mobile/>)
  * [Android](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/android/>)
  * [iOS](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/apple-ios/>)
  * [Internet](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/internet-tech/>)
  * [Browsers](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/browser/>)
  * [WordPress](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/wordpress/>)
  * [Gadgets](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/gadgets/>)
  * [Hardware Guides](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/pc-hardware/>)
  * [How Things Work](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/tech-explained/>)
  * [All Categories](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/all-categories/>)

  * Sites
  * [MTE Premium](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/>)
  * [Software Discovery](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/software>)
  * [Ebooks](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/library/ebooks/>)
  * [Deals](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/deals.maketecheasier.com>)
  * About Us
  * [About Us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/about/>)
  * [Advertise with us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/advertise/>)
  * [Contact Us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/contact/>)
  * [Privacy Policy](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/privacy-policy/>)
  * [Terms of Service](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/terms-of-service/>)
  * [RSS Feed Terms](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/rss-feed-terms/>)

  * [ __](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/feeds.maketecheasier.com/MakeTechEasier>)
  * [ __](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/facebook.com/MakeTechEasier>)
  * [ __](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/twitter.com/intent/user?original_referer=http://www.maketecheasier&region=following&screen_name=maketecheasier&tw_p=followbutton&variant=2.0>)
  * [ __](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/plus.google.com/+Maketecheasier/posts>)
  * [ __](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/instagram.com/maketecheasier>)
  * [ __](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/pinterest.com/MakeTechEasier>)

# How to Easily Remember Linux Commands

![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-feat.jpg)

__[ Nick Congleton](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/author/nickcongleton/>) __17th Nov
2017 __[Linux](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/category/linux-tips/>) __ [9
Comments](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/#comments>)

  * [__Share](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.maketecheasier.com%2Fremember-linux-commands%2F> "Share this article in Facebook")
  * [__Tweet](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/twitter.com/share?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.maketecheasier.com%2Fremember-linux-commands%2F&text=How+to+Easily+Remember+Linux+Commands> "Share this article in Twitter")
  * [__Email](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<mailto:?subject=How to Easily Remember Linux Commands&body=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.maketecheasier.com%2Fremember-linux-commands%2F> "Email this article to your friends")

  * __
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/microsoft-office-mastery-bundle/> "Previous article: Lifetime Access to Microsoft Office Mastery Bundle for Only $49")
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/disable-wifi-on-lan/> "Next article: How to Automatically Disable WiFi When Connected to a Wired Connection")

The command line can be daunting for new Linux users. Part of that is
remembering the multitude of commands available. After all, in order to use
the command line effectively, you need to know the commands.

Unfortunately, there's no getting around the fact that you need to learn the
commands, but there are some tools that can help you out when you're getting
started.

## History

![Linux Bash History
Commands](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-bash-
history.jpg)![Linux Bash History
Commands](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-bash-
history.jpg)

The first thing you can use to remember commands that you've already used is
your own command line history. Most [Linux
shells](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/alternative-linux-shells/>), including
the most common default, Bash, create a history file that lists your past
commands. For Bash, you can find it at "/home/<username>/.bash_history."

It's a plain text file, so you can open it in any text editor and loop back
through or even search.

## Apropos

There's actually a command that helps you find _other_ commands. It 's called
"apropos," and it helps you find the appropriate command to complete the
action you search or. For example, if you need to know the command to list the
contents of a directory, you can run the following command:

[code]

    apropos "list directory"
[/code]

![Linux Apropos](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-
apropos.jpg)![Linux
Apropos](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-apropos.jpg)

There's a catch, though. It's very literal. Add an "s" to "directory," and try
again.

[code]

    apropos "list directories"
[/code]

It doesn't work. What `apropos` does is search through a list of commands and
the accompanying descriptions. If your search doesn't match the description,
it won't pick up the command as a result.

There is something else you can do. By using the `-a` flag, you can add
together search terms in a more flexible way. Try this command:

[code]

    apropos "match pattern"
[/code]

![Linux Apropos -a
Flag](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-
apropos-a.jpg)![Linux Apropos -a
Flag](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-apropos-a.jpg)

You'd think it'd turn up something, like
[grep](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/what-is-grep-and-uses/>)? Instead, you
get nothing. Again, apropos is being too literal. Now, try separating the
words and using the `-a` flag.

[code]

    apropos "match" -a "pattern"
[/code]

Suddenly, you have many of the results that you'd expect.

apropos is a great tool, but you always need to be aware of its quirks.

## ZSH

![Linux ZSH
Autocomplete](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-
zsh.jpg)![Linux ZSH
Autocomplete](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/10/rc-
zsh.jpg)

ZSH isn't really a tool for remembering commands. It's actually an alternative
shell. You can substitute [ZSH](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/understanding-the-different-shell-in-
linux-zsh-shell/>) for Bash and use it as your command line shell. ZSH
includes an autocorrect feature that catches you if you enter in a command
wrong or misspell something. If you enable it, it'll ask you if you meant
something close. You can continue to use the command line as you normally
would with ZSH, but you get an extra safety net and some other really nice
features, too. The easiest way to get the most of ZSH is with [Oh-My-
ZSH](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh>).

## Cheat Sheet

The last, and probably simplest, option is to use a [cheat
sheet](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/cheatsheet/linux-command-
line/>). There are plenty available online like [this
one](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.cheatography.com/davechild/cheat-sheets/linux-command-
line/>) that you can use to look up commands quickly.

![linux-commandline-
cheatsheet](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2013/10/linux-
commandline-cheatsheet.gif)![linux-commandline-
cheatsheet](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2013/10/linux-
commandline-cheatsheet.gif)

You can actually even find them in image form and set one as your desktop
wallpaper for quick reference.

This isn't the best solution for actually remembering the commands, but when
you're starting out, it can save you from doing a search online every time you
don't remember a command.

Rely on these methods when you're learning, and eventually you'll find
yourself referring to them less and less. No one remembers everything, so
don't feel bad if you occasionally forget or run into something you haven't
seen before. That's what these resources and, of course, the Internet are
there for.

Is this article useful? Yes No

#### Related Ebooks

[![The Beginner's Guide to
KDE](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/03/kde-beginner-guide-
thumb.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/ebook/beginners-guide-to-
kde/>)

[The Beginner's Guide to KDE](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/ebook/beginners-guide-to-
kde/>)

[![The Beginner's Guide to Linux Command
Line](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2016/12/linux-command-
line-ebook-thumb.png)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/ebook/beginners-guide-linux-
command-line/>)

[The Beginner's Guide to Linux Command
Line](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/ebook/beginners-guide-linux-
command-line/>)

[![The Complete Beginner's Guide to Ubuntu
16.04](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2016/05/ubuntu-
beginner_thumb.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/ebook/complete-beginners-
guide-ubuntu1604/>)

[The Complete Beginner's Guide to Ubuntu
16.04](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/premium/ebook/complete-beginners-
guide-ubuntu1604/>)

## 9 comments

  1. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3354c3ef91240202bd13908d3ac53783?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F3354c3%2Ffff%26text%3DD&r=g)

dragonmouth says

"Unfortunately, there’s no getting around the fact that you need to learn the
commands"  
Fortunately, that statement is not true. One can happily use Linux without
ever resorting to the use of command line. Knowing the commands helps but is
not absolutively necessary. To paraphrase the Kix cereal commercial "Silly
boy, Linux is not just for geeks"

[Nov 17, 2017 at 9:20 am](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63781>) Reply

    1. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4c7f0cbd36fae02ce8816ff17627fa86?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F4c7f0c%2Ffff%26text%3DB&r=g)

Bonzadog says

18.11.2017

No, dragonmouth, with some command line commands life could be difficult for
you.  
It is available to know some command line commands - the above and nano, chmod
apt-get are worth at least a look at.

[Nov 18, 2017 at 10:08 am](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63811>) Reply

  2. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/4c7f0cbd36fae02ce8816ff17627fa86?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F4c7f0c%2Ffff%26text%3DB&r=g)

Bonzadog says

My comment is riddles with errors caused by my new spelling checker and -
worse -me hitting submit without an adequate check:  
Here a redo with the SC switched firmly off.

No, dragonmouth, without some command line commands life could be difficult
for you.  
It is available to know some command line commands - the above and nano,
chmod, apt-get are worth at least a look at. Learning is fun so grab a
book/cheat sheet/tutorial and bash (pardon the pun) away.

[Nov 18, 2017 at 10:13 am](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63814>) Reply

    1. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/3354c3ef91240202bd13908d3ac53783?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F3354c3%2Ffff%26text%3DD&r=g)

dragonmouth says

"without some command line commands life could be difficult for you"  
Not really. Just like Windows can be used perfectly well without resorting to
CLI, so can Linux. The mythical "average user" will use a GUI editor instead
of nano, GUI package manager instead of apt-get, will not be messing around
with permission via chmod. (S)he will not need to know the command history or
similar commands (apropos) if (s)he never uses CLI. Command line is for users
like you and me who like to tinker with their O/S and get under its hood.

[Nov 19, 2017 at 7:44 am](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63832>) Reply

      1. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/c3ed6851b70d51c384f99120711d6f6e?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2Fc3ed68%2Ffff%26text%3DL&r=g)

LinuxLover says

Agree. My wife is very non-techo and she can use Linux and Mac having never
touched a commandline.

[Nov 19, 2017 at 6:24 pm](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63853>) Reply

  3. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/a24bd22bcc2b433a590358c4af624707?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2Fa24bd2%2Ffff%26text%3DL&r=g)

Liam says

Have you ever learned a new word in your native language? Have you ever typed
an email? Have you ever done so using that new word and using proper grammar?
Did that seem like part of your everyday life?

Using the command line in linux is much like that. It's just not that hard and
you might learn a little while you're at it.

One -can- happily use linux without ever "resorting" to the us of command
line. The same is true of Android, IOS and Windows and in the pure GUI realm
it makes little difference which you choose. If you want to get all the
benefits of leaving the big corporate operating systems behind, do your self a
favor and learn to use the command line -some of the time-. I -almost- never
fire up linux without starting the graphical user interface. But I
-completely- never fire up the GUI without starting a command line window.

Yeah, I'm a linux geek now. But when I started learning linux, I used the
command line exclusively and that was just fine (Caveat: I did so on a spare
computer that I could afford to wreck, although that never happened).

[Nov 18, 2017 at 12:05 pm](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63817>) Reply

  4. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0a55a43591e9d2cd8453d0727314dc51?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F589a70%2Ffff%26text%3DE&r=g)

Eddie G. says

I'm gonna have to agree with DragonMouth on this one. my mother who's 70+ had
a laptop given to her a while back, it was running Windows XP (that's how OLD
it is!!) Notice I say "is" and not "was"? She's still using that laptop to
this day, IIRC this laptop was given to her in 2011, and it ran Win XP. That
is….until it crashed (AGAIN!)….both my Mom and I were fed up with the OS, so I
installed Linux Mint on her laptop, and she's been using it ever since.
(2011….remember!!?) She's not EVER had to use the CLI for ANYTHING, at
ANYTIME. Since Linux Mint provides an updater with a GUI. And she even knows
how to handle the issues that pop up from time to time…(like when she's
prompted regarding a file and whether or not she wants to keep the original or
install the developer's version? etc.) so no. It is NOT necessary to learn ANY
command line whatsoever in order to use Linux. Does it make sense to learn it?
Yes. Definitely. Will it make you just a bit more handy when dealing with
Linux? Most certainly, people will turn to you when they have issues, and with
each situation you troubleshoot and resolve, you become more proficient with
both the various flavors of Linux and the command line. But is it ABSOLUTELY
NECESSARY to learn the command line in order to use Linux. No….No its not.
(Which is one of the reasons why I believe there's been more adoption of Linux
throughout the world!)

[Nov 19, 2017 at 11:56 pm](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63862>) Reply

    1. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/e2a054bf6bb7d43b4a8ce007dc435c49?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F2a054b%2Ffff%26text%3DN&r=g)

noman says

Eddie G. Notice that you did say "was", not" is":  
"it was running Windows XP"

[Nov 20, 2017 at 4:38 am](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63880>) Reply

      1. ![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/0a55a43591e9d2cd8453d0727314dc51?s=64&d=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.uqnic.com%2Fdi%2F64x64%2F589a70%2Ffff%26text%3DE&r=g)

Eddie G. says

Noman: I said it WAS running Windows XP, but that….THAT was how old it IS……to
point out the fact that not many people are still using hardware from 2011. I
was trying to show that you can install Linux on an old laptop and have it
work fine for a LONG TIME, with nothing more than the regular updates and
upgrades. And while I know (as do we all!) that some technology will die off
and be replaced by better, the standards are there and will be for a while. So
you could say….purchase a really decent machine today in 2017 and running
Linux?….along with regular updates and the like…..could well see that machine
into the year 2025! You can't do that with Windows. And I shouldn't say can't
but you wouldn't be able to without having to re-install your OS after getting
hit with something that had malicious intent!.

[Nov 20, 2017 at 7:53 pm](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/#comment-63901>) Reply

### Leave a Reply [Cancel reply](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-
linux-commands/</remember-linux-commands/#respond>)

Yeah! You've decided to leave a comment. That's fantastic! Check out our
[comment policy](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/privacy-policy/#comment-policy>) here.
Let's have a personal and meaningful conversation.

Name:

Email:

Leave your comment here:

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.

Leave this field blank.  

#### Popular Posts

[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/custom-linux-
distro-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/6-tools-to-easily-create-your-own-
custom-linux-
distro/>)[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/custom-
linux-distro-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/6-tools-to-easily-create-your-own-
custom-linux-distro/>)

[8 Tools to Easily Create Your Own Custom Linux
Distro](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/6-tools-to-easily-create-your-own-
custom-linux-distro/>)

[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/Linux-productivity-
apps-00-Featured-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/free-linux-productivity-apps-you-
havent-heard-
of/>)[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/Linux-
productivity-
apps-00-Featured-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/free-linux-productivity-apps-you-
havent-heard-of/>)

[10 Free Linux Productivity Apps You Haven't Heard
Of](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/free-linux-productivity-apps-you-
havent-heard-of/>)

[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/zfs-
feat-194x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/use-zfs-filesystem-ubuntu-
linux/>)[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/zfs-
feat-194x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/use-zfs-filesystem-ubuntu-linux/>)

[How to Use the ZFS Filesystem on Ubuntu
Linux](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/use-zfs-filesystem-ubuntu-linux/>)

[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/08/gauth-
feat-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/setup-two-factor-authentication-
ubuntu/>)[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/08/gauth-
feat-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/setup-two-factor-authentication-
ubuntu/>)

[How to Set Up Two-Factor Authentication in
Ubuntu](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/setup-two-factor-authentication-
ubuntu/>)

[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/wine-games-
feat-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/games-play-on-linux-with-
wine/>)[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/wine-games-
feat-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/games-play-on-linux-with-wine/>)

[10 Games You Can Play on Linux with
Wine](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/games-play-on-linux-with-wine/>)

[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/11/linux-distros-
gaming-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-distros-for-
gaming/>)[![](https://www.maketecheasier.com/assets/uploads/2017/11/linux-
distros-gaming-200x100.jpg)](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-distros-for-gaming/>)

[5 of the Best Linux Distros for
Gaming](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/best-linux-distros-for-gaming/>)

#### Get more stuff like this in your inbox

Daily Update Weekly Roundup Deals & Giveaway Apps Discovery

Subscribe Now

we respect your privacy and take protecting it seriously

[See All Newsletters »](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/newsletter/>)

  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/feeds.maketecheasier.com/MakeTechEasier>)
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/facebook.com/MakeTechEasier>)
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/twitter.com/intent/user?original_referer=http://www.maketecheasier&region=following&screen_name=maketecheasier&tw_p=followbutton&variant=2.0>)
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/plus.google.com/+Maketecheasier/posts>)
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/instagram.com/maketecheasier>)
  * [__](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<http:/pinterest.com/MakeTechEasier>)

  * [About](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/about/>)
  * [Contact](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/contact/>)
  * [Advertise](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/advertise/>)
  * [Write For Us](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/write-for-make-tech-easier/>)
  * [Terms of Use](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/terms-of-service/>)
  * [Privacy Policy](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/privacy-policy/>)
  * [RSS Feed Terms](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com/rss-feed-terms/>)

(C) 2007 - 2017 Uqnic Network Pte Ltd. All rights reserved.  
[Make Tech Easier](https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-
commands/<https:/www.maketecheasier.com>) is a member of the Uqnic Network.

__


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

via: https://www.maketecheasier.com/remember-linux-commands/

作者：[Eric Raymond ][a]
译者：[译者ID](https://github.com/译者ID)
校对：[校对者ID](https://github.com/校对者ID)

本文由 [LCTT](https://github.com/LCTT/TranslateProject) 原创编译，[Linux中国](https://linux.cn/) 荣誉推出

